# Welcome to the Medicare Claims Synthetic Public Use Files (SynPUFs) Repositories  

In order to utilize Sentinel's reusable Modular Program tools, data must be transformed into the Sentinel Common Data Model (SCDM) and must pass a series of quality assurance checks. The Sentinel Operations Center (SOC) has transformed the SynPUFs into the SCDM and has made them available for public use with the Sentinel tools. 

## What are SynPUFs?  
SynPUFs were created to allow interested parties to gain familiarity using Medicare claims data while protecting beneficiary privacy. These are synthetic claims datasets created by combining randomized information from various beneficiaries. Each record from the SynPUFs dataset contains extracted claims information from at least three unique beneficiaries. These records were further altered by changing variable values to provide additional deidentification from the beneficiaries.  

### Disclaimer for using SynPUFs  
The SynPUFs is a synthetic claims dataset created by combining randomized information from beneficiaries. Each record from the SynPUFs dataset contains extracted claims information from at least three unique beneficiaries. These records were further altered by changing variable values to provide additional beneficiary deidentification. Due to the synthetic nature of the dataset, results generated by SynPUFs may not be used to make any meaningful scientific conclusion.  

The SOC has converted SynPUFs into the SCDM format to demonstrate the functionality of the Sentinel routine query tool Cohort Identification and Descriptive Analysis (CIDA); results generated by the SCDM-formatted SynPUFs may not be used to make any meaningful scientific conclusion.

## What do I need to run a query on SynPUFs data?  
In order to run a query using Sentinel's reusable Modular Program tools on the SynPUFs, you will need to start with a CIDA package. You can find a the most recent version of CIDA [<b>here</b>](https://dev.sentinelsystem.org/projects/AD/repos/qrp/browse) and its accompanying documentation [<b>here</b>](https://dev.sentinelsystem.org/projects/SENTINEL/repos/sentinel-routine-querying-tool-documentation/browse).  

The SOC has also provided a pre-parameterized version of the CIDA package for use on the SynPUFs which can be accessed [<b>here</b>](https://dev.sentinelsystem.org/projects/SYNPUF/repos/synpuf_cida_package/browse).  

The SCDM-formatted SynPUFs can be found [<b>here</b>](https://dev.sentinelsystem.org/projects/SYNPUF/repos/synpuf_sas_datasets/browse). There are 20 subsamples of the SynPUFs dataset available for users which can be used individually or combined together to create a larger dataset. Each subsample consists of seven data tables containing information related to: health plan enrollment, member demographics, health care utilization (i.e., outpatient pharmacy dispensings and medical encounters, diagnoses, and procedures), and death.  

The SOC has also provided the translational code used to transform the SynPUFs into the SCDM. This code, including lookupfiles, macros, and the sasprogram file, can be found [<b>here</b>](https://dev.sentinelsystem.org/projects/SYNPUF/repos/synpuf_translation_code/browse).

